Topic: 2 –Control Statement & Loops :

1. If cost price and selling price of an item is input through the keyboard, write a program to determine whether the seller has made profit or incurred loss. Also determine how much profit he made or loss he incurred.

2. Any integer is input through the keyboard. Write a program to find out whether it is an odd number or even number.

3. Any year is input through the keyboard. Write a program to determine whether the year is a leap year or not. (Hint: Use the % (modulus) operator)

4. According to the Gregorian calendar, it was Monday on the date 01/01/1900. If any year is input through the keyboard write a program to find out what is the day on 1st January of this year.

5. A five-digit number is entered through the keyboard. Write a program to obtain the reversed number and to determine whether the original and reversed numbers are equal or not.

6. If the ages of Ram, Shyam and Ajay are input through the keyboard, write a program to determine the youngest of the three.

7. Write a program to check whether a triangle is valid or not, when the three angles of the triangle are entered through the keyboard. A triangle is valid if the sum of all the three angles is equal to 180 degrees.

8. Find the absolute value of a number entered through the keyboard.9. Given the length and breadth of a rectangle, write a program to find whether the area of the rectangle is greater than its perimeter. For example, the area of the rectangle with length = 5 and
breadth = 4 is greater than its perimeter.

10. Given three points (x1, y1), (x2, y2) and (x3, y3), write a program to check if all the three points fall on one straight line.

11.Write a program to print prime numbers from 1 to 99. (Hint: 'See P5.27, instead of entering a number, take a for loop that generates numbers from 1 to 99)

12.Write a program to enter a number and find the reverse of that number.

13. Input a number and a digit and find whether the digit is present in the number or not, if present then count the number of times it occurs in the number.

14.Write a program to accept any number n and print the sum of square of all numbers from 1 to n.

15. Write a program to accept any number n and print the cube of all numbers from 1 to n which are divisible by 3.

16. Write a program to accept any six digit number and print the sum of all even digits of that number and multiplication of all odd digits.

17. Write a program to find out the value of x raised to the power y, where x and yare positive integers.

18.Write a program to accept any number up to six digits and print that in words. For example- 1265 = one two six five Write a program to enter a number and test whether it is a Fibonacci number or not.

19. Write a program to print all the Pythagorean triplets less than 50. Any three numbers x, y, z are called Pythagorean triplets if x < .Y < z and X2+y2 = Z

20. In a company, worker efficiency is determined on the basis of the time required for a worker to complete a particular job. If the time taken by the worker is between 2 – 3 hours, then the worker is said to be highly efficient. If the time required by the worker is between 3 – 4 hours, then the worker is ordered to improve speed. If the time taken is between 4 – 5 hours, the worker is given training to improve his speed, and if the time taken by the worker is more than 5 hours, then the worker has to leave the company. If the time taken by the worker is input through the keyboard, find the efficiency of the worker. 

21.Write a program to calculate overtime pay of 10 employees. Overtime is paid at the rate of Rs. 12.00 per hour for every hour worked above 40 hours. Assume that employees do not work for fractional part of an hour.

22.Write a program to find the factorial value of any number entered through the keyboard. Two numbers are entered through the keyboard.

23.Write a program to find the value of one number raised to the power of another.

24. Write a program to print all the ASCII values and their equivalent characters using a while loop. The ASCII values vary from 0 to 255.25.Write a program to print all prime numbers from 1 to 300. (Hint: Use nested loops, break and continue)

26.Write a program to fill the entire screen with a smiling face. The smiling face has an ASCII value 1.

27.Write a program to produce the following output:
A
BC
DEFG
FED
CB
A

28.Write a program to produce the following output: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
29. Write a program to produce the following output: 
1
1 1
1 2 1
1 3 3 1
